and welcome back to the show we're
joined by Jessica Hardy on skype right
now from Los Angeles Jessica the big
news as we mentioned at the top of the
show was that your suspension has now
been reduced to a year but but I hear
even with that year you could still not
be able to compete at the 2012 Olympic
Trials and thus at the games explain
what that situation is and what your
goal is now um I guess a couple days
after my paws are before my paws I think
two days before my positive test the IFC
issued this new rule that if you're
suspended for longer than six months
that you're not eligible for the next
Olympics after the conclusion of your
band um for someone like me who's
already missed in olympic games that i
was already hundred percent qualified
for I think this rule is excessive but
um we're in negotiations with the IOC
we're going to try to get a waiver from
that rule because of my certs my special
circumstance and and if not then i guess
my panel on has stated that they're
going to reduce my band of six months
but um I mean either either option is
okay with me I just want to be able to
to kind of have London as a future goal
I know you have to be careful with what
you can say in terms of ongoing lawsuits
but advil care the supplement company
has said that they've done their own
independent tests and found that the
supplements they were providing for you
were not tainted so are you worried at
all that they're going to someday
present their own evidence and that that
could throw a wrench in your plans yeah
I mean I'm not supposed to talk about it
just because we still have on going to
ongoing lawsuits they sued me and I've
sued them so um I'd rather not get into
that but we are very aware of of that
future challenge okay Jessica I'm gonna
send it over to Jeff Cummings right now
our Associate Producer he has some
viewer questions for you okay thank you
all right Jess our first three questions
we have for viewers takes us through
you're the results of your positive test
on to now and the question is did any
big-name swimmers come to your defense
or were you suddenly alone in your quest
to defend yourself and that is an
interesting question i think i was kind
of left alone um they were obviously
very occupied with the olympic games
coming up in like a week and a half and
I tried not to bother anyone on the team
and and I tried not to to show any
emotion or distress but um I was I was
left alone to kind of fend for myself
but um I was ok with that because they
needed to focus on themselves all right
and our next of your question is do you
feel bad for Tara Kirk and large accent
who both finished third behind you at
Olympic Trials I mean I'm sure they're
there fighting that I mean Tara is
fighting her own fight about how to
change how that's handy in the future I
was a victim of unser terrible
circumstance and and I really had no
control over when that was announced or
I mean when they would have been I just
I don't feel like it's really my place
to say that um they might have been
screwed or not but I mean it's a tough
question I feel bad that they didn't get
to participate but I think that you know
everything kind of happens for a reason
I don't know right right all right in
our lives for your question is what
advice has your coach Dave Salo giving
you through all this he's been really a
really good person for me to have to
handle this because he's been through it
before um he he's just been kind of
patient with me and giving me you know
some time off away for than last year
and and kind of just kept my emotions in
check and he's just been a really good
rock for me it
Jessica this is Peter again someone this
has happened to before kicker wenzel did
he reach out to you at all and give you
any advice or any condolences so to
speak yeah kicker is actually like one
of my best friends in the entire world
and um he was really outraged when this
happened because drove it to happen to
him and then for it to have happened
again to me and you know he he just felt
like the mistake shouldn't have happened
again let alone to you know one of his
teammates and best friends and just that
I mean the coincidence was uncanny and
then um it was beneficial for me to have
him to talk to because he's really good
with with you know putting his words
together and just emotionally keeping
you you know it's stable and just and
just kind of helping me relate and know
what I'm the emotions I'm feeling I'm i
wasn't going crazy or you know because i
started you know you start to lose you
lose your sense of who you are and your
morals you question everything and and
he really helped me just stay grounded
and you tell us see with these maalula
just do it so much distortion as well
yeah do about training where are you
right now in training are you back in
the pool full time what is the plan
going forward aside from dealing with
the suspension stuff I throughout this
whole thing I've been training three
times a week and then doing some dry
land stuff on my own when I felt like I
needed it um I think just because for me
i'm more of a racer like I I really have
trouble you know staying competitive and
practice unless I unless I can have a
goal or future you know and without not
know without knowing when that would be
again I just took a step back and it was
really helpful um I'm currently in
finals with school this week so I'm just
going to continue through this week
training just three times this week and
then beginning next week I'll be back
full time but I don't think I've really
ever gotten out of shape and I'm still
swimming pretty fast and practice and I
mean if I could compete now i think i'd
be ready to go but we'll
SI sono your ultimate goal is to get
that suspension draw to six months that
you can know that you're going for 2012
but what if that doesn't happen would
you would you hang it up no I think that
this has kind of this challenge has kind
of made me more thirsty for more success
and I think that I'm going to be in this
sport for a really long time so I'm
definitely not going to hang it up even
if even if I have similar obstacles to
go through to get through 2012 I my
career won't be over well we wish you
good luck with that journey I can't
imagine what the past 11 months or so
have been for you but we thank you for
coming on the show and being open and
honest about your situation and good
luck thank you very much all right
that's Jessica Hardy joining us here on
the morning swim show we thank her for
that appearance let's take a quick break
when we come back we're going to have
some tech tips from coaching author